---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Money

## **Overview**

The Greater Atlantic Territorial Alliance (GATA) boasts a sophisticated and thriving economy operating on the System's decentralized infrastructure. At the heart of this economy is the native currency, credits (CRED), which facilitate cross-district and international commerce.&#x20;

While the System promises stability and efficiency, this comes at the cost of its automatic filtering of suspicious transactions. This regulation sustains the existence of a thriving black market both within districts and across Greater Atla.

Despite these challenges, GATA's prosperous and diverse financial ecosystem remains one of its greatest triumphs in the wake of the Reconstruction.

***

## **Credits Currency**

Credits (CRED), commonly referred to as creds, are the main medium of exchange within GATA and the native currency of the System. Introduced with the creation of the System, CREDS facilitate legal transactions across all sectors, from everyday purchases to large-scale industrial operations.

They are digital tokens that leverage the System's decentralized infrastructure to ensure seamless and secure financial interactions.

Credits are regularly distributed via the yield granted to GATA's citizens. The value of CRED is derived from the surplus generated by GATA's extensive operations, natural resources, and energy production, which is sold to domestic and international enterprise, and state partners.

As these tokens circulate through The System, they gradually accrue in various System-designed token sinks, taking them out of circulation forever. This mechanism ensures that the currency remains valuable and supports economic growth without the risk of devaluation.

### **Security and Privacy**

The design of CREDS emphasizes security and privacy. Transactions involving CREDS are untraceable, safeguarding the identities and personal information of users. This feature is particularly important in a world where surveillance and data breaches are significant concerns. By ensuring that financial transactions cannot be easily tracked, GATA protects its citizens from potential misuse of their financial data.

With that said, this protection comes with a compromise; all CRED transactions are filtered by the System node, preventing illegal transactions, and alerting the local authority to suspicious network activity. Any wallets involved in illegal transactions, or holding illegal assets, can be frozen by the AIC.

Of course, these restrictions simply push the black market underground, driving the continued  use of alternative currencies, slips, and physical cash.

### **Alternative Currencies**

In addition to Credits, GATA's financial system includes alternative forms of currency to accommodate different types of transactions and user preferences. In addition to the many open currencies, every legal enterprise has its own currency.

***

## **Slips**

Small, portable hardware wallets that function as partial nodes on the CRED network. Slips enable offline transactions, making them ideal for casual commerce and areas with limited connectivity. They can store various digital assets, keys, and data, providing flexibility and security in everyday transactions.&#x20;

Slips can be configured in different ways to limit various permissions, such as adding a spending limit, or limiting particular assets to signing-only as a safeguard against theft.&#x20;

Slips are tied to an address on the System, and if lost, can be easily replaced so long as its owner has the pre-designated credentials. Slips without recovery credentials are often used for off-the-books transactions, as the lack of recovery method ensures the exchange is secure.

## **Paper money**

Storage paper, also known as paper slates, are a resilient paper-like material that is used to store encrypted information, including digital assets.&#x20;

While less physically secure than digital forms of storage, paper is valued in black market transactions for its untraceability. However, it carries other risks such as loss, theft, and destruction.

***

## **Legal and Regulatory Framework**

The financial system of GATA operates under a robust legal and regulatory framework to ensure its integrity and compliance with the New Dawn Accords (NDA) as well as the Whole Privacy Protection Act (WPP).

Atlan Information Control (AIC) oversees the enforcement of financial regulations, ensuring that all transactions and economic activities align with GATA's stringent standards. The WPP further enhances the security of the financial system by regulating data collection, and preventing deceptive practices, surveillance, and systemic abuse.
